Language/Functions/Math/constrain.adoc, before:

---
title: constrain()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Funções Matemáticas" ]
---

= constrain(x, a, b)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Descrição
Restringe um número a ficar dentro de um intervalo.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Sintaxe
`constrain(x, a, b)`


[float]
=== Parâmetros
`x`: o número a se restringir, qualquer tipo de dado

`a`: o extremo inferior do intervalo, qualquer tipo de dado

`b`: o extremo superior do intervalo, qualquer tipo de dado

[float]
=== Retorna
x: se x está entre a e b

a: se x é menor que a

b: se x é maior que b

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Código de Exemplo
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
O código limita os valores de uma variável com a leitura de um sensor entre 10 e 150. 

[source,arduino]
----
sensVal = constrain(sensVal, 10, 150);  // limita os valores entre 10 e 150
----

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== Ver Também

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS

Commit message:

Add warnings about doing operations inside macro parameters
The way these macros are written, causes operations done within the parameters to be repeated when the macro runs.

Although warnings were already added to max() and min(), they were still missing from constrain() and sq().

Language/Functions/Math/constrain.adoc, after:

---
title: constrain()
categories: [ "Functions" ]
subCategories: [ "Funções Matemáticas" ]
---

= constrain(x, a, b)


// OVERVIEW SECTION STARTS
[#overview]
--

[float]
=== Descrição
Restringe um número a ficar dentro de um intervalo.
[%hardbreaks]


[float]
=== Sintaxe
`constrain(x, a, b)`


[float]
=== Parâmetros
`x`: o número a se restringir, qualquer tipo de dado

`a`: o extremo inferior do intervalo, qualquer tipo de dado

`b`: o extremo superior do intervalo, qualquer tipo de dado

[float]
=== Retorna
x: se x está entre a e b

a: se x é menor que a

b: se x é maior que b

--
// OVERVIEW SECTION ENDS




// HOW TO USE SECTION STARTS
[#howtouse]
--

[float]
=== Código de Exemplo
// Describe what the example code is all about and add relevant code   ►►►►► THIS SECTION IS MANDATORY ◄◄◄◄◄
O código limita os valores de uma variável com a leitura de um sensor entre 10 e 150. 

[source,arduino]
----
sensVal = constrain(sensVal, 10, 150);  // limita os valores entre 10 e 150
----

[float]
=== Notes and Warnings
Because of the way the `constrain()` function is implemented, avoid using other functions inside the brackets, it may lead to incorrect results.

This code will yield incorrect results:
[source,arduino]
----
int constrainedInput = constrain(Serial.parseInt(), minimumValue, maximumValue);   // avoid this
----

Use this instead:
[source,arduino]
----
int input = Serial.parseInt();  // keep other operations outside the constrain function
int constrainedInput = constrain(input, minimumValue, maximumValue);
----
[%hardbreaks]

--
// HOW TO USE SECTION ENDS


// SEE ALSO SECTION
[#see_also]
--

[float]
=== Ver Também

--
// SEE ALSO SECTION ENDS
